[docu-2751] Dynamic log levels (#4789)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/production/logging/update-log-level-dynamically.md

---
title: Dynamic Log Level Updates
content-type: reference
---

> With {{site.base_gateway}} 3.1, you can now change the log level of {{site.base_gateway}} dynamically, without restarting {{site.base_gateway}} using the Admin API. This set of endpoints can be protected using [RBAC](/gateway/latest/admin-api/rbac/reference/#add-a-role-endpoint-permission) and changes in log level are reflected in the [audit log](/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/audit-log/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {{site.base_gateway}} 3.1, you can now change the log level of {{site.base_gateway}} dynamically, without restarting {{site.base_gateway}} using the Admin API. This set of endpoints can be protected using [RBAC](/gateway/latest/admin-api/rbac/reference/#add-a-role-endpoint-permission) and changes in log level are reflected in the [audit log](/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/audit-log/).

The log level change is propagated to all Nginx workers of a node, including to newly spawned workers.

Care must be taken when changing the log level of a node to `debug` in a production environment because the disk could fill out quickly. As soon as the debug logging finishes, ensure to revert back to a higher level such as `notice`.
```

## View current log level

To view the log level of an individual node issue a `GET` request passing the desired `node` as a path parameter: 

```bash
curl --request GET \
  --url http://localhost:8001/debug/node/log-level/ 
```

If you have the appropriate permissions, this request will return information about your current log level: 

```bash
{
    "message": "log level: notice"
}
```
{:.note}
> It is currently not possible to change the log level of the data plane or DB-less nodes. 

## Modify the log level for an individual {{site.base_gateway}} node

> To change the log level of an individual node, issue a `POST` request passing the desired `node` and [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) as path parameters: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the log level of an individual node, issue a `PUT` request passing the desired `node` and [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) as path parameters: 
```

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url http://localhost:8001/debug/node/log-level/notice 
```

If you have the appropriate permissions and the request was successful you will receive a `200` response code and the following response body: 

```bash
{
	"message": "log level changed"
}
```

## Change the log level of the {{site.base_gateway}} cluster

> To change the log level of every node in your cluster, issue a `POST` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the log level of every node in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter: 
```

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url http://localhost:59191/debug/cluster/log-level/notice
```

If you have the appropriate permissions and the request was successful you will receive a `200` response code and the following response body:

```bash
{
	"message": "log level changed"
}
```

### Manage new nodes in the cluster

To ensure that the log level of new nodes that are added to the cluster remain in sync the other nodes in the cluster, change the `log_level` entry in [`kong.conf`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#log_level) to `KONG_LOG_LEVEL`. This setting allows new nodes to join the cluster with the same log level as all existing nodes.

## Change the log level of all control plane {{site.base_gateway}} nodes

> To change the log level of the control plane nodes in your cluster, issue a `POST` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the log level of the control plane nodes in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter:
```

---
title: Dynamic Log Level Updates
content-type: reference
---

With {{site.base_gateway}} 3.1, you can now change the log level of {{site.base_gateway}} dynamically, without restarting {{site.base_gateway}} using the Admin API. This set of endpoints can be protected using [RBAC](/gateway/latest/admin-api/rbac/reference/#add-a-role-endpoint-permission) and changes in log level are reflected in the [audit log](/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/audit-log/).

The log level change is propagated to all NGINX worker nodes, including the newly spawned workers.

Care must be taken when changing the log level of a node to `debug` in a production environment because the disk could fill up quickly. As soon as the debug logging finishes, revert back to a higher level such as `notice`.

## View current log level

To view the log level of an individual node issue a `GET` request passing the desired `node` as a path parameter: 

```bash
curl --request GET \
  --url http://localhost:8001/debug/node/log-level/ 
```

If you have the appropriate permissions, this request will return information about your current log level: 

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
    "message": "log level: notice"
}
```

> {:.note}
> > It is currently not possible to change the log level of the data plane or DB-less nodes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{:.note}
> It is currently not possible to change the log level of the data plane or DB-less nodes. 
```

## Modify the log level for an individual {{site.base_gateway}} node

> To change the log level of an individual node, issue a `PUT` request passing the desired `node` and [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) as path parameters: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the log level of an individual node, issue a `PUT` request passing the desired `node` and [`log-level`](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/production/logging/log-reference/) as path parameters: 
```

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url http://localhost:8001/debug/node/log-level/notice 
```

> If you have the appropriate permissions and the request was successful you will receive a `200` response code and the following response body: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have the appropriate permissions and the request is successful, you receive a `200` response code and the following response body: 
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
	"message": "log level changed"
}
```

## Change the log level of the {{site.base_gateway}} cluster

> To change the log level of every node in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the log level of every node in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter: 
```

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url http://localhost:59191/debug/cluster/log-level/notice
```

> If you have the appropriate permissions and the request was successful you will receive a `200` response code and the following response body:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have the appropriate permissions and the request is successful, you receive a `200` response code and the following response body:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
	"message": "log level changed"
}
```

### Manage new nodes in the cluster

> To ensure that the log level of new nodes that are added to the cluster remain in sync the other nodes in the cluster, change the `log_level` entry in [`kong.conf`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#log_level) to `KONG_LOG_LEVEL`. This setting allows new nodes to join the cluster with the same log level as all existing nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the log level of new nodes that are added to the cluster remain in sync the other nodes in the cluster, change the `log_level` entry in [`kong.conf`](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#log_level) to `KONG_LOG_LEVEL`. This setting allows new nodes to join the cluster with the same log level as all existing nodes.
```

## Change the log level of all control plane {{site.base_gateway}} nodes

> To change the log level of the control plane nodes in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the log level of the control plane nodes in your cluster, issue a `PUT` request with the desired [`log-level`](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/production/logging/log-reference/) specified as a path parameter:
```

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url http://localhost:59191/debug/cluster/control-planes-nodes/log-level/notice
```

> If you have the appropriate permissions and the request was successful you will receive a `200` response code and the following response body:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have the appropriate permissions and the request is successful, you receive a `200` response code and the following response body:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```
